hey what's up everyone my name is wade
patterson and in this video i am going
to give you
three tips of how to deliver a toast in
front of a group of family members
friends or maybe business associates if
this is your first time landing on one
of my videos i encourage you to
subscribe turn on notifications my
channel is all about impactful
communication and helping you become a
better public speaker and a better
communicator in general
it's crazy to think but sometimes i get
more nervous to deliver a toast in front
of a small group of family members or
friends than i do to deliver a speech in
front of a group of like 200 people and
i guess it makes sense because i
probably care a little bit more about
what the family members and friends
think of how i delivered but also
a speech a formal speech the audience is
expecting that they are there for your
speech they expect you to deliver and to
talk in front of them whereas giving a
toast it's kind of random it's
spontaneous but i've had a few
experiences in life and good and bad
with giving toast and so i wanted to
share this video at least from my
perspective three things that i've found
are really important to consider when
giving a toast at
somewhat casual or can even be somewhat
formal event the first tip i have is to
pick your timing
often toasts are best delivered
early in the evening but you want to
determine how many people are going to
be at the event and ensure that most
people have arrived at that point in
time
it's a little bit odd to deliver a
speech if you only have like 40 percent
of the people there now this can be
difficult if it's an event where people
are coming all sorts of times over a few
hour duration picking your time might be
a bit trickier but if it's a dinner
party for example and it starts at seven
o'clock
if by 7 10
pretty much everyone is there and
everyone has a drink in their hand
they're seated at the table
often that is your time that is your
opportunity of course the other thing
you're navigating is where the
conversation is going you don't want
that abrupt transition if somebody is
talking about how their their
grandparent just passed away and and the
mood in the room is very sad and somber
you don't want to stand up and say hey a
toast to everyone of how great this is
to all be here having a fantastic meal
yeah use common sense there you want to
pick your timing so you want to
transition when the conversation has
sort of slowed down a bit you you pick
your spot you pick your gap and you then
can stand and you can deliver that toast
and keep it and this is my second tip
short and sweet keep the toast concise
because there's nothing worse than
somebody who goes on and on standing
especially when it's kind of an
unsolicited speaking opportunity and
talks and tells stories and for ages and
everyone's wondering how long this is
going to go for in terms of etiquette if
you are the host you are probably the
person if anyone people are expecting
will
deliver that toast if you are not the
host you want to sort of give the host
the opportunity to take that lead
because they may have been planning on
saying a couple words
otherwise if they haven't and you're
noticing okay it's getting further into
the dinner
it may be a great opportunity for you to
deliver the toast but then thank the
hosts and kind of start at that point
thanking them for inviting everyone
together and saying a few short words
about the evening or the occasion that
you were celebrating one of the most
important tips that i have when it comes
to delivering a toast is whatever the
thing you toast to at the end
keep that very short and easy to
remember i have seen people give toasts
and at the end
they say some long convoluted sentence
and nobody really remembers how to say
that as they raise their glass they may
say
to all of the adventurers we have in
this year and for many years to come
and then people raise their glass and
they're like to all of the adventure and
they're stumbling and they don't
remember exactly what the words were in
that case you could keep it simple and
say to a lifetime of adventures
raise the glass everyone's going to
remember that that's very easy
everyone's going to repeat it and it's a
nice way to close it up so that is my
third tip for this video first tip pick
your timing second tip keep it concise
there's no toast that is too short keep
it short and sweet to the point and the
third tip is to wrap it up with a toast
that is very easy to remember to the
point giving a toast at a dinner party
or even a work event it's usually not
something that people are expecting but
the reason i created this video is
because it's something that's nice if
you can do that if you can have the
confidence to stand up people will
will remember that it's kind of a warm
feeling that you're gonna put out
amongst the group they're going to
appreciate that you said a few formal
words whether you're the host it feels
very welcoming or if somebody else is
the host but they're not comfortable
delivering a toast
you can do so and you can thank them and
they're going to really appreciate that
as well
if you're nervous about the etiquette
piece you can always chat to the host in
advance or
find out if they're comfortable if
they're planning to give a toast ask if
you have their permission to say a
couple words i'm sure they're going to
be completely fine with it but that way
you're safe on the etiquette side a
final thing i'd say and i may have
mentioned this earlier i feel like this
video has been a little all over the
place with different ideas but stand up
it's easy to sit down and to say a few
words but that's what's going to
separate something that's a little nicer
a little more formal than something
that's just casual telling a story
around the table
stand up say the words your friends
might think well what's going on at
first but again it's just something
that's very
it's very nice it's that little formal
bit that people are going to appreciate
and especially if you deliver it well
people are going to think huh this
evening isn't just any dinner party they
went above and beyond they said a few
nice words and it's just a nice
experience to have if this video was
helpful to you consider subscribing to
my channel leave a comment below i do my
best to go through all of the comments
and i love to hear what your thoughts
are if i missed any tips add those in as
well otherwise thank you so much for
watching and have an awesome rest of
your day